Wudu is the ritual washing of the body parts before prayer or other acts of worship in Islam. It is a way of purifying oneself physically and spiritually. Wudu involves washing the hands, mouth, nose, face, arms, head and feet with water in a specific order. Here are the steps to perform wudu properly:

Step 1: Make the intention (niyyah) to perform wudu in your heart and say “Bismillah” (in the name of Allah) out loud or silently.
Step 2: Wash your hands up to the wrists three times, starting with the right hand and then the left hand. Make sure to wash between the fingers and under the nails.
Step 3: Rinse your mouth with water three times, using your right hand to take water and swish it around your mouth. Spit out the water after each rinse.
Step 4: Sniff water into your nostrils three times, using your right hand to take water and inhale it through your nose. Blow out the water through your nose after each sniff. You can use your left hand to help clean your nose if needed.
Step 5: Wash your face three times, from the hairline to the chin and from ear to ear. Make sure to wet your whole face and beard if you have one.
Step 6: Wash your arms up to the elbows three times, starting with the right arm and then the left arm. Make sure to wet your whole arm, including the elbow and the back of the hand.
Step 7: Wipe your head with wet hands once, from the forehead to the back of the head and then back to the forehead. You can also wipe your ears by inserting your index fingers into your ears and wiping them with your thumbs.
Step 8: Wash your feet up to the ankles three times, starting with the right foot and then the left foot. Make sure to wet your whole foot, including the toes and the heels. You can also wipe between your toes with your little finger.
Your wudu is now complete. You can say “Ashhadu an la ilaha illa Allah wa ashhadu anna Muhammadan rasulullah” (I bear witness that there is no god but Allah and I bear witness that Muhammad is His messenger) as a way of ending your wudu.

You should try to keep your wudu until you pray or do other acts of worship that require it. Some things that can break your wudu are:

Passing urine, stool or gas
Bleeding from any part of the body
Vomiting
Falling asleep
Losing consciousness
Touching one’s private parts
Eating camel meat
If any of these things happen, you should perform wudu again before praying or doing other acts of worship that require it.

I hope this guide from islaming helps you perform wudu correctly and easily. May Allah accept your wudu and prayers.
